docs/call-for-submissions.md, before:

---
disable_toc: false
---

<div style="max-width: 1000px; margin: 0 auto;" markdown>

# Call for Submissions

ICBO 2026 invites contributions exploring the critical role of ontologies and semantic technologies in developing trustworthy, interpretable, and AI-ready ecosystems. Original research, system descriptions, and position papers are invited addressing the following challenges.

---

## Topics of Interest

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 1. Ontological Foundations for Trustworthy AI

- Methods for grounding Large Language Models (LLMs) in formal ontologies
- Advancements in neuro-symbolic AI and explainable AI (XAI)
- Ensuring logical consistency in AI-mediated knowledge discovery

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 2. Semantic Modeling and Bounding of GenAI

- Ontology-driven validation of generative outputs
- Semantic approaches to hallucination detection and mitigation
- Integration of Knowledge Graphs (KGs) with generative workflows

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 3. Domain-Specific Applications in Biomedical Research

Practical implementations across core domains:

- **Life Sciences:** Molecular biology, genomics, and proteomics discovery
- **Clinical & Public Health:** Heterogeneous data integration for epidemiology and health informatics
- **Wellness & Behavior:** Frameworks for mental health, physical wellness, environmental health, and behavioral science
- **Global Systems:** Food safety, agricultural systems, and environmental sustainability

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 4. AI-Readiness and Semantic Infrastructure

- Defining and benchmarking "AI-readiness" for datasets and ontologies
- Governance, sustainability, and community standards evolution
- Semantic metadata's role in model training and fine-tuning

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 5. FAIR Principles in the Era of GenAI

- Evaluating FAIR principles sufficiency for machine-actionable data
- Provenance, traceability, and reproducibility in AI-integrated pipelines

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 6. Practical and Theoretical Perspectives

- Distinctions between Semantics and Ontology in GenAI contexts
- The future of biocuration and manual knowledge engineering

</div>

---

## Submission Categories

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-file-text"></i> Full Research Papers</h3>
<p>Detailed reports on original, mature research contributions. Full papers should present significant results and be thoroughly evaluated.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-file-text-o"></i> Short Papers</h3>
<p>Updates on ongoing work or focused technical contributions. Short papers provide an opportunity to present preliminary results or novel ideas.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-desktop"></i> Posters & Software Demos</h3>
<p>Presentations of emerging tools, software systems, and early-stage concepts. Ideal for showcasing practical implementations and prototypes.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

---

## <i class="fa fa-calendar"></i> Important Dates

!!! warning "Mark Your Calendar"
    The main conference takes place **July 15–17, 2026**. Please note the submission deadlines below.

| Track | Submission Deadline | Acceptance Notification |
|---|---|---|
| **Workshop & Tutorial Proposals** | March 1, 2026 | March 15, 2026 |
| **Direct-to-Journal Track** | April 15, 2026 | June 1, 2026 |
| **Main Conference Papers** | May 1, 2026 | June 1, 2026 |
| **Posters & Software Demos** | June 1, 2026 | June 15, 2026 |

---

## <i class="fa fa-envelope"></i> Contact Information

Please direct all questions to Asiyah Yu Lin — <a href="mailto:ontology.world@gmail.com">ontology.world@gmail.com</a>

</div>

Commit message:

Add acknowledgment for Microsoft CMT service
Added acknowledgment section for Microsoft CMT service.

docs/call-for-submissions.md, after:

---
disable_toc: false
---

<div style="max-width: 1000px; margin: 0 auto;" markdown>

# Call for Submissions

ICBO 2026 invites contributions exploring the critical role of ontologies and semantic technologies in developing trustworthy, interpretable, and AI-ready ecosystems. Original research, system descriptions, and position papers are invited addressing the following challenges.

---

## Topics of Interest

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 1. Ontological Foundations for Trustworthy AI

- Methods for grounding Large Language Models (LLMs) in formal ontologies
- Advancements in neuro-symbolic AI and explainable AI (XAI)
- Ensuring logical consistency in AI-mediated knowledge discovery

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 2. Semantic Modeling and Bounding of GenAI

- Ontology-driven validation of generative outputs
- Semantic approaches to hallucination detection and mitigation
- Integration of Knowledge Graphs (KGs) with generative workflows

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 3. Domain-Specific Applications in Biomedical Research

Practical implementations across core domains:

- **Life Sciences:** Molecular biology, genomics, and proteomics discovery
- **Clinical & Public Health:** Heterogeneous data integration for epidemiology and health informatics
- **Wellness & Behavior:** Frameworks for mental health, physical wellness, environmental health, and behavioral science
- **Global Systems:** Food safety, agricultural systems, and environmental sustainability

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 4. AI-Readiness and Semantic Infrastructure

- Defining and benchmarking "AI-readiness" for datasets and ontologies
- Governance, sustainability, and community standards evolution
- Semantic metadata's role in model training and fine-tuning

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 5. FAIR Principles in the Era of GenAI

- Evaluating FAIR principles sufficiency for machine-actionable data
- Provenance, traceability, and reproducibility in AI-integrated pipelines

</div>

<div class="topic-card-full" markdown>

### 6. Practical and Theoretical Perspectives

- Distinctions between Semantics and Ontology in GenAI contexts
- The future of biocuration and manual knowledge engineering

</div>

---

## Submission Categories

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-file-text"></i> Full Research Papers</h3>
<p>Detailed reports on original, mature research contributions. Full papers should present significant results and be thoroughly evaluated.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-file-text-o"></i> Short Papers</h3>
<p>Updates on ongoing work or focused technical contributions. Short papers provide an opportunity to present preliminary results or novel ideas.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="submission-card">
<h3><i class="fa fa-desktop"></i> Posters & Software Demos</h3>
<p>Presentations of emerging tools, software systems, and early-stage concepts. Ideal for showcasing practical implementations and prototypes.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

---

## <i class="fa fa-calendar"></i> Important Dates

!!! warning "Mark Your Calendar"
    The main conference takes place **July 15–17, 2026**. Please note the submission deadlines below.

| Track | Submission Deadline | Acceptance Notification |
|---|---|---|
| **Workshop & Tutorial Proposals** | March 1, 2026 | March 15, 2026 |
| **Direct-to-Journal Track** | April 15, 2026 | June 1, 2026 |
| **Main Conference Papers** | May 1, 2026 | June 1, 2026 |
| **Posters & Software Demos** | June 1, 2026 | June 15, 2026 |

---

## Acknowledgment
The Microsoft CMT service was used for managing the peer-reviewing process for this conference. This service was provided for free by Microsoft and they bore all expenses, including costs for Azure cloud services as well as for software development and support.

## <i class="fa fa-envelope"></i> Contact Information

Please direct all questions to Asiyah Yu Lin — <a href="mailto:ontology.world@gmail.com">ontology.world@gmail.com</a>

</div>
